welcome to a brand-new feature on my
blog I'm going to be showing you some
tips and tricks and some basic
techniques that I regularly use in the
kitchen today I'm going to be showing
you how to cut up a fresh chicken into 8
pieces now this is a particularly good
idea because it can work out much
cheaper to buy a whole chicken and cut
it up yourself than buying the pre-cut
pieces in a supermarket I've sharpened
my knife which is obviously the most
important piece of equipment we're going
to be using today and I'm ready to go
the first thing I'm going to do is cut
off the wing tips if you pull the wing
out you can see that there's a joint
here and I'm simply going to take the
knife and slice through it throw away
the wing tip and do the same on the
other side the next thing I'm going to
do is cut off the legs and thighs now
first of all we have to ease the thighs
away from the breasts and we do that by
simply cutting through the skin just to
the side of the breast and you can see
that my leg has already come away I'm
going to do exactly the same thing on
the other side so my legs have now come
away and the next bit is not for the
squeamish because you have to give the
leg a good pull and when you do that
you'll see the bone come out of the
joint and it's at that point that you
need to just cut through the chicken
just to the side of the joint and as
you'll see the joint comes away
perfectly I'll do it again on this side
just gently pull the bone out of its
joint take the knife and just cut to the
side of it and the joint comes away
perfectly next we need to cut the
breasts off and to do that locate the
phone down the center of the carcass and
slide your knife just to the side of it
like this and as it slides through
you'll see that it cuts through the
flesh and all you need to do is follow
the bone with gentle strokes of the
knife and the breast will come away like
so you'll then reach the joint where the
wing meets the carcass and again you
just got to cut straight through it and
here's our breast piece with the wing
attached I'm going to do exactly the
same thing on the other side just slide
the knife down the side of the bone
and once I've made the first cut
just follow the bone underneath with the
knife with gentle strokes and it just
comes away very very easily and again
cut up the joy and that just leaves the
carcass I'm not going to throw it away
I'm going to just chuck it in the sauce
pan with some carrot some celery some
peppercorns a bay leaf or maybe some
time cook it for a couple of hours and
that will make a really nice chicken
stock I'm going to separate the breasts
from the wings that's very very easily
done just cut to the side of the joint
and that leaves our whole breasts and
our wings I'll do the same with the
other one and finally you can separate
the drumstick and the thigh turn both
legs over and you want to locate the
joint between the drumstick and the
thigh you can do it with your finger you
can actually feel where that joint is
and once you've got it just take the
knife and cut straight through it I'll
do the same on the other side and then
you have it two drumsticks two thighs
two wings two breasts probably going to
be using a casserole later on today